# MIP-Representation-for-SPFG
This repository contains code to represent and solve SPFGs using a compact MIP-representation

- File `SymPartiFind.py` models and solve a symmetric partition function form game (SPFG), given a number of players `N` or given a matrix `A`. Matrix `A` of dimension `N^2` is a concise way to write a SPFG. It can be exact if `N<=5` or under more conditions if `N>5`. Else, the SPFG must be approximated by using the least squares method.
- File `RankCheck.py` performs a check on a SPFG in dictionary form to see if it is convertible to a matrix `A` for using our representation. It also contains a method to convert a dictionary representing a full SPFG to a matrix `A`.
- File `RankStudy.py` computes the rank of matrix `Q`, which contains every numerical partition containing at least one coalition of cardinality `N-h`, where `N` is the number of players in the game and `h` is the index of the column of matrix `A` stocking the values for coalitions counting `N-h` players. The rank of matrix `Q` gives us the representation power for any SPFG, simply based on `N` and `N-h`.
- File `PriceExample.py` contains a Bertrand price example set up as in [this article](https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.1060.0605) by Nagarajan et al., and inspired by [this article](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2020.07.039) by Basso et al. It also contains a main function performing, for an assortment of parameters, the creation of a SPFG dictionary corresponding to the Bertrand problem using `RankStudy.py`, the conversion of the dictionary into a matrix `A` using `RankCheck.py`, the solving of the mixed-integer linear programme using `SymPartiFind.py` and the printing of the results into a csv file.
- File `ConvexSymPartiFind.py` attempts to do the same thing as `SymPartiFind.py`, but with a convexified version of the problem that is using the McCormick envelopes, to see if this would cause any gain of speed. It does not.

This work was done in the context of a master's degree. The link to the thesis will be available soon.
